Add documentation for provider and service description files (#290)
sailfishos/docs.sailfishos.org: Reference/Core_Areas_and_APIs/Apps_and_MW/Accounts_and_SSO/Providers_and_Services/README.md

---
title: Providers and Services
permalink: Reference/Core_Areas_and_APIs/Apps_and_MW/Accounts_and_SSO/Providers_and_Services
parent: Accounts and SSO
grand_parent: Apps and MW
layout: default
---

## Account Provider and Service description files

> A plugin which adds account providers and/or services to the system should describe them using description files, which are defined below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A plugin which adds account providers and/or services to the system describes them using description files, which are defined below.
```

Each account is tied to a provider. The provider allows the user to use the account with a number of services. Each account provider can provide various types of services, and each service type can be provided by various providers.

> 

Reviewer: I'd add a link to the [API docs](https://sailfishos.org/develop/docs/sailfish-accounts/)  to this paragraph and write something about Providers and Services APIs can be found there. And yes, I do see that there are linking from Providers and Service types section. This way this page would have clearer focus towards explaining what Providers and Services types are.

---
title: Providers and Services
permalink: Reference/Core_Areas_and_APIs/Apps_and_MW/Accounts_and_SSO/Providers_and_Services
parent: Accounts and SSO
grand_parent: Apps and MW
layout: default
---

## Providers and Services

Each account in the Accounts&SSO framework is tied to a provider. The provider allows the user to use the account with a number of services. Each account provider can provide various types of services, and each service type can be provided by various providers.

> We have a QML API for accessing account data in the framework: [Sailfish Accounts](https://sailfishos.org/develop/docs/sailfish-accounts/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have [Sailfish Accounts](https://sailfishos.org/develop/docs/sailfish-accounts/) QML API for accessing account data.
```
Somehow the colon and framework bugs me. Thus, above proposal.

A plugin which adds account providers and/or services to the system describes them using description files, which are defined below.

### Provider description files

> Each provider must have it's own provider description file. As of Sailfish OS 4.5.0 the location of these files is `/usr/share/accounts/providers` but you can check the location by running the command `pkg-config --variable=providerfilesdir libaccounts-glib` on a [build-shell](/Tools/Platform_SDK/Building_Packages/#running-arbitrary-commands). 

Reviewer: The link here will be affected by https://github.com/sailfishos/docs.sailfishos.org/pull/292

Might be simpler to merge https://github.com/sailfishos/docs.sailfishos.org/pull/292 first and fix the link here already. However you like.

Author: fixed now
